# Create incoming webhook

Now that we have set up our infrastructure lets make a slack app and attach it to a slack channel. We will create a slack app to notify the DevOpsRepresent channel for this workshop. [Reference](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks)

## Create a slack app

---

1. Navigate to [slack apps.](https://api.slack.com/apps)
2. Select `Create New App`
3. Select `From scratch`
4. Enter your app name e.g. `<Name> AWS error notification`. Make sure to put your name in the app name so we can differentiate between the different app names
5. Select `DevOpsRepresent` for workspace option
6. Selecte `Create App`

We've just create a new Slack app! Now we just need to enable incoming webhook.

7. In `Building Apps for Slack` and under `Add features and functionalities` select `Incoming Webhooks`.
8. Toggle `Activate Incoming webhooks` to `On` and select `Add New Webhook to Workspace`
9. Select the your workshop channel and click `Allow`
10. Copy your webhook URL

Done!

# Storing this webhook URL

As this webhook URL contains a secret key to send messages to Slack we need to store this in a secure way with AWS System Manager Parameter Store.

> Parameter Store, a capability of AWS Systems Manager, provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. You can store data such as passwords, database strings, Amazon Machine Image (AMI) IDs, and license codes as parameter values. You can store values as plain text or encrypted data. [Reference.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html)

Create encrypted parameter

```
aws ssm put-parameter --name "error-slack-webhook-url" --value "<WEBHOOK-URL>" --type "SecureString"
```

OR

```
aws ssm put-parameter --profile <profile_name> --name "error-slack-webhook-url" --value "<WEBHOOK-URL>" --type "SecureString"
```

</br>
</br>

# [NEXT SECTION - Create slack notification lambda 👉🏽](../03.7-slack-notification-lambda-setup/03.7-slack-notification-lambda-setup.md)
