# DynamoDB

DynamoDB is a fully managed database provided by AWS. It is a key-value NoSQL database, meaning that you can retrieve a
row using a unique identifier and without using SQL.

## Replacing `dog-breed.json` with DynamoDB

Currently, our lambda packages all the dog breeds from a static file and compiles it into the application code. This
means that to add or remove any breeds, you will need to re-deploy the serverless project.

By storing the dog breeds in a database, we will be able to add and remove dog breeds as required, without needing to
re-deploy the database.

## Create a new DynamoDB instance

We can append to our existing serverless resources to create a new DynamoDB table the next time we deploy.

Below is the minimal definition required to create a table:

```
resources: # CloudFormation template syntax
  Resources:
    <DDBName>:
      Type: AWS::DynamoDB::Table
      Properties:
        TableName: <TableName>
        BillingMode: PAY_PER_REQUEST
        AttributeDefinitions:
          - AttributeName: DogBreed
            AttributeType: S
        KeySchema:
          - AttributeName: DogBreed
            KeyType: HASH
```

The names can be anything, but it's a good idea to keep them descriptive.

## Import breeds into DynamoDB

A database isn't very useful if it doesn't have any data. We can parse the JSON file and use the AWS CLI to import the contents of `dog-breed.json` into the database.

You may run `./dynamo-import.sh` from the root of this project to do this.

Once done, inspect the DynamoDB dashboard to see what has been imported.

## Query breeds against DynamoDB

Now that we have a DynamoDB table created, we need to modify our function to check if the breed exists in the dynamo table instead of checking against the list in `dog-breed.json`.

First, we will need to install the packages for the DynamoDB client

```
yarn add @aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```

Next, we will need to import the the package, and change the lookup to query DynamoDB instead of searching the json file.

Add the following to the imports:

```js
const { DynamoDBClient, QueryCommand } = require("@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb");
```

and modify the lookup from:

```js
if (!dogBreedData.some((x) => x === breed)) {
  throw new Error("Breed provided is not valid");
}
```

to

```js
const client = new DynamoDBClient({ Region: "ap-southeast-2" });
const command = new QueryCommand({
  ConsistentRead: true,
  TableName: "<TableName>",
  KeyConditionExpression: "#breed = :ref",
  ExpressionAttributeValues: {
    ":ref": { S: breed },
  },
});

const response = await client.send(command);

if (response.Count === 0) {
  throw new Error("Breed provided is not valid");
}
```

# [NEXT SECTION - Cleanup 👉🏽](../03.9-cleanup/03.9-cleanup.md)
